---
title: "Causally Aware Generative Adversarial Networks for Light Pollution Control"
excerpt: "<br/><video src='/images/AAAI24_CAGAN.mp4' controls />"
collection: portfolio
---

Artificial light plays an integral role in modern cities, signif- icantly enhancing human productivity and the efficiency of civilization. However, excessive illumination can lead to light pollution, posing non-negligible threats to economic burdens, ecosystems, and human health. Despite its critical impor- tance, the exploration of its causes remains relatively limited within the field of artificial intelligence, leaving an incom- plete understanding of the factors contributing to light pollu- tion and sustainable illumination planning distant. To address this gap, we introduce a novel framework named Causally Aware Generative Adversarial Networks (CAGAN). This in- novative approach aims to uncover the fundamental drivers of light pollution within cities and offer intelligent solu- tions for optimal illumination resource allocation in the con- text of sustainable urban development. We commence by examining light pollution across 33,593 residential areas in seven global metropolises. Our findings reveal substantial influences on light pollution levels from various building types, notably grasslands, commercial centers and residen- tial buildings as significant contributors. These discovered causal relationships are seamlessly integrated into the gen- erative modeling framework, guiding the process of gener- ating light pollution maps for diverse residential areas. Ex- tensive experiments showcase CAGAN’s potential to inform and guide the implementation of effective strategies to miti- gate light pollution. Our code and data are publicly available at https://github.com/zhangyuuao/Light Pollution CAGAN.
